Design Document
Jake Castanon
Image Processing Thing
Data
Image - 2D array
Ask - char
File1 - string
File2 - string
Fp1 - file pointer
Fp2 - file pointer
Program
The user is prompted with a menu to load a new image, display the current image, edit
the current image, or exit the program. If the user loads a new image, it loads the image
into a 2D array. If the user chooses to edit the current image, they are prompted with a
new menu that asks the user if they want to crop the image, dim the image, or brighten
the image. After editing the image, the user is asked if they want to save it, and then the
user is brought back to the first menu.
Functions
crop()
Parameters: The 2D Array
Return: The 2D Array
Functionality: Asks the user which smaller section of the original image they would like
to use to create an edited image and then returns an array of the edited image.
dim()
Parameters: The 2D Array
Return: The 2D Array
Functionality: Decreases every character in the image by one brightness value, and if the
character is already the lowest brightness, it stays the same.
brighten()
Parameters: The 2D Array
Return: The 2D Array
Functionality: Increases every character in the image by one brightness value, and if the
character is already max brightness, it stays the same.
menu1()
Parameters: none
Return: none
Functionality: Displays options for the user to load a new image, display the current
image, edit the current image, or exit the program.
menu2()
Parameters: none
Return: none
Functionality: Displays options for the user to crop the image, dim the image, or
brighten the image.
fileSave()
Parameters: The 2D Array
Return: none
Functionality: Asks the user if they want to save their edited image to a file. If the user
agrees they are prompted for a file name and then the image is saved into the file through
a loop that goes through the array.
loadImage()
Parameters: File Pointer, The 2D Array
Return: The 2D Array
Functionality: Asks the user for a file name and then reads the file and puts all the
brightness values into the 2D array.
displayImage()
Parameters: The 2D Array
Return: None
Functionality: Runs a loop that changes the values into the corresponding character and
then runs another loop that displays the image on the screen.
main()
Data: The 2D Array and Variables for decisions
Functionality: In a while loop, prompts the menus in order and does what the user asks
through if statements, and if the user asks to exit the program, the while loop ends and the
program stops.
